# Outlier Mining: Unveiling Key Agents in Criminal Networks
Methods for Identifying Key agents through Anomaly Detection.
The understanding that society functions as interconnected networks has led to significant changes in scientific techniques and approaches across multiple disciplines. In particular, it has profoundly impacted criminology, offering substantial benefits regarding resource allocation and even saving lives. The emergence of advanced theoretical knowledge of Network Science and Machine Learning has opened new paths for developing network analysis models, considering the topological and dynamic relevance of individuals within criminal networks. In recent years, network-based approaches have been improved by creating interconnected representations, allowing for more comprehensive and integrated network analysis. Taking advantage of a vast public security database from the State of Minas Gerais, Brazil, this study proposes models to identify and classify key agents using methods based on complex networks and outliers mining through human and social capital and mixed. Various strategies for identifying key actors to disrupt network structure are compared, and the performance of the identification strategies is evaluated. The results demonstrate that the definition of the social capital proposal and Outilier Score 1 (OS1) is the most efficient approach. The model for identifying key agents suggested for disrupting criminal networks allows law enforcement agencies to identify, visualize, and evaluate illegal activities, thereby increasing the likelihood of successfully dismantling these networks.
